Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss
about double pointers or pointer to pointers
So what is a double pointer? We have already learned
about pointers and we know that pointers point to variables
So a double pointer is nothing but a pointer
pointing to another pointer. that is double pointers will
be storing the address of another pointer
So let us discuss more using this C code here. First We
have an integer variable declaration for a and is initialised
to 10 and suppose a is created at address 1024
next we have int *ptr which means ptr
is an integer Pointer. so ptr can store the address
of an integer variable and we are assigning the value
&a that is address of A which is
So Ptr
will store 1024 and refers to a and suppose it
is created at address 2024. so we can get this
address using &ptr
Next we have int **dptr which means
dptr is an integer double pointer
Two stars are used for double pointers so dptr
can store the address of an integer pointer and
we are assigning the value &Ptr that is address
of ptr which is 2024
So dptr will store 2024 and refers to ptr and
suppose it is created at Address 3024 so we can
get this address using
&dptr
Now we have some print statements
First of all we have address of a=&a
and one thing you must have noted here
is %p
format
Specifier, which is used to print the hexa
decimal memory location or the address of a variable
So this statement will print the address of A which
is 1024 and we will get the output address of a
equal to 1024
Next we have ptr is pointing to address ptr again
as we learned
If it just write the name of variable it returns
the value  stored in it and we get value store
in ptr which is address 1024
So we get this output
Next we have dptr is pointing to the address dptr
again
It will print the Value store in dptr which is
2024 and we get the output
dptr is pointing to the address 2024
next we have value of a equal to a which
will print the value of variable a which is 10
next we are printing *ptr and as we know
ptr=1024
So we got *1024  which returns the value at
address 1024 which is 10 again. next we are Printing
**dptr and dptr=what? 2024
So we got **2024 and this *2024
returns the value at 2024 which is 1024
Now we got *1024 and it returns the
value at address 1024 which is 10 again
So remember this always star followed by some address returns
The value at that address and & followed by
a variable name returns the address of that variable
So that's all about double pointers
So that's all and thank you for watching this video